README.md, before:

# PMM Dump (pmm-import-export-tool)

A tool that will fetch data from PMM and import it into local instance. Will help Percona Services engineers to resolve issues when the customer cannot provide access to their PMM instance.

## How to build?

You will need to have Go 1.16+ installed.

In the root directory: `make build`

## Using PMM Dump

The transfer process is split into two main parts: export and import.

In order to run either export or import, you have to specify PMM URL with credentials at least:
```
./pmm-dump export --pmm-url "http://USER:PASS@HOST"
./pmm-dump import --pmm-url "http://USER:PASS@HOST" --dump-path FILENAME.tar.gz
```
Also, you can use credentials flags or envars:
```
./pmm-dump export --pmm-url "http://HOST" --pmm-user USER --pmm-pass PASS
PMM_USER=USER PMM_PASS=PASS ./pmm-dump import --pmm-url "http://HOST" --dump-path FILENAME.tar.gz
```

Here are main commands/flags:


| Command   | Flag                 | Description                                                                                               | Example                                                                                                    |
|-----------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| any       | pmm-url              | URL of PMM instance. Envar: `PMM_URL`                                                                     | `http://admin:admin@localhost`                                                                             |
| any       | pmm-host             | Host of PMM instance(with scheme). Envar: `PMM_HOST`                                                      | `http://localhost`                                                                                         |
| any       | pmm-port             | Port of PMM instance. Envar: `PMM_PORT`                                                                   | `80`                                                                                                       |
| any       | pmm-user             | PMM credentials user. Envar: `PMM_USER`                                                                   | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | pmm-pass             | PMM credentials password. Envar: `PMM_PASS`                                                               | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | pmm-token            | PMM API token. Envar: `PMM_TOKEN`                                                                         |                                                                                                            |
| any       | pmm-cookie           | PMM auth cookie value. Envar: `PMM_COOKIE`                                                                 |                                                                                                            |
| any       | dump-core            | Process core metrics                                                                                      | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | dump-qan             | Process QAN metrics                                                                                       | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | workers              | Set the number of import/export workers                                                                   | `4`                                                                                                        |
| export    | start-ts             | Start date-time to limit timeframe (in [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format)            | `2006-01-02T15:04:05Z` (please note that you can't use offset for UTC time)<br>`2006-01-02T15:04:05-07:00` |
| export    | end-ts               | End date-time to limit timeframe (in [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format)              | `2006-01-02T15:04:05Z` (please note that you can't use offset for UTC time)<br>`2006-01-02T15:04:05-07:00` |
| export    | ignore-load          | Disable checking for load values                                                                          | -                                                                                                          |
| export    | max-load             | Max value of a metric to postpone export                                                                  | `CPU=50,RAM=50,MYRAM=10`                                                                                   |
| export    | critical-load        | Max value of a metric to stop export                                                                      | `CPU=70,RAM=70,MYRAM=30`                                                                                   |
| export    | stdout               | Redirect output to STDOUT                                                                                 | -                                                                                                          |
| export    | vm-native-data       | Use VictoriaMetrics' native export format. Reduces dump size, but can be incompatible between PMM versions | -                                                                                                          |
| import    | vm-content-limit     | Limit the chunk content size for VictoriaMetrics (in bytes). Doesn't work with native format              | `1024`                                                                                                     |
| any       | dump-path, d         | Path to dump file                                                                                         | `/tmp/pmm-dumps/pmm-dump-1624342596.tar.gz`                                                                |
| any       | verbose, v           | Enable verbose (debug) mode                                                                               | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | allow-insecure-certs | For self-signed certificates                                                                              | -                                                                                                          |
| show-meta | -                    | Shows dump meta in human readable format                                                                  | -                                                                                                          |
| show-meta | no-prettify          | Shows raw dump meta                                                                                       | -                                                                                                          |
| version   | -                    | Shows binary version                                                                                      | -                                                                                                          |


For filtering you could use the following commands (will be improved in the future):

| Command | Flag        | Description                       | Example                      |
| ------- | ----------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| export  | ts-selector | Timeseries selector (for VM only) | `{service_name="mongo"}`     |
| export  | where       | WHERE statement (for CH only)     | `service_name='mongo'`       |
| export  | dashboard   | Dashboard name (for VM only)      | `MongoDB Instances Overview` |
| export  | instance    | Filter by service name            | `mongo`                      |

You could filter by instance using service name or id. For example, we have registered the following mongodb instance:

```
> pmm-admin add mongodb --username=pmm_mongodb --password=password mongo mongodb:27017
MongoDB Service added.
Service ID  : /service_id/6d7fbaa0-6b21-4c3f-a4a7-4be1e4f58b11
Service name: mongo
```

So the value of `ts-selector` would be: `{service_name="mongo"}` or `{service_id="/service_id/6d7fbaa0-6b21-4c3f-a4a7-4be1e4f58b11"}`.
The same for `where` QAN filter: `service_name='mongo'` or `service_id='/service_id/6d7fbaa0-6b21-4c3f-a4a7-4be1e4f58b11'`.
Also, you can use `instance` option which filters QAN and core metrics by service name

```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --ts-selector=`{service_name="mongo"}` --dump-qan --where=`service_name='mongo'`
```
is same as
```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --instance="mongo" --dump-qan
```

To filter by multiple dashboards, you can use `dashboard` flag multiple times:
```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --dashboard='MongoDB Instances Overview' --dashboard='MySQL Instances Overview'`
```

In some cases you would need to override default configuration for VM/CH processing:

| Command | Flag                 | Description                                         | Example                                        |
| ------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| any     | victoria-metrics-url | URL of Victoria Metrics                             | `http://admin:admin@localhost:8282/prometheus` |
| any     | click-house-url      | URL of Click House                                  | `http://localhost:9000?database=pmm`           |
| export  | chunk-time-range     | Time range to be fit into a single chunk (VM only)  | `45s`, `5m`, `1h`                              |
| export  | chunk-rows           | Amount of rows to fit into a single chunk (CH only) | `1000`                                         |

### Using in pipelines
You can redirect output to STDOUT with --stdout option. It's useful to redirect output to another pmm-dump in a pipeline:
```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --dump-qan --stdout | ./pmm-dump import --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --dump-qan 
```

### Stop or postpone during export
You can set threshold values to stop or postpone pmm-dump during export using `max-load` and `critical-load` options.

The syntax for these options is following:

```
<threshold>=<percent_value>
```

You can provide multiple threshold values separated by commas. For example:

``` 
--max-load='CPU=100,RAM=30'
```
Available thresholds:
- `CPU` - CPU load of PMM instance in percents (0-100)
- `RAM` - RAM load of PMM instance in percents (0-100)
- `MYRAM` - RAM load of instance which uses pmm-dump in percents (0-100)

## About the dump file

Dump file is a `tar` archive compressed via `gzip`. Here is the shape of dump file:

* `dump.tar.gz/meta.json` - contains metadata about the dump (JSON object)
* `dump.tar.gz/vm/` - contains Victoria Metrics data chunks split by timeframe (in native VM format)
* `dump.tar.gz/ch/` - contains ClickHouse data chunks split by rows count (in TSV format)


## Using Makefile - local dev env

There is a Makefile for easier testing locally. It uses docker-compose to set up PMM Server, Client and MongoDB.

You will need to have Go 1.16+ and Docker installed.

| Rule                | Description                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| make                | Shortcut for fast test       |
| make build          | Builds pmm-dump binary       |
| make up             | Sets up docker containers    |
| mongo-reg           | Registers MongoDB in PMM     |
| mongo-insert        | Executes MongoDB insert      |
| make down           | Shuts down docker containers |
| make re             | Shortcut for `down up`       |
| make export-all     | Runs export from local PMM   |
| make run-tests      | Runs all tests               |
| make run-e2e-tests  | Runs all e2e tests           |
| make run-unit-tests | Runs all unit tests          |

For more rules, please see `Makefile`

## Running End-to-End Tests

For detailed instructions on executing end-to-end tests, please refer to the [Exectuing e2e tests](./internal/test/README.md).

Commit message:

PMM-13282 Migrate to PMM v3 (#178)
* PMM-13282 update README.md

* PMM-13282 update load-pmm-dump script

* PMM-13282 use PMM v3 API endpoints

* PMM-13282 update PMM_VERSION tag

* fix pmm-server port

* fix TestPMMCompatibility

* return build tag

* PMM-13282 update ci workflow

* PMM-13282 fix container port

* PMM-13282 various minor fixes

* PMM-13282 update README

* PMM-13282 fix the cookie name

* PMM-13282 fix README again

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrii Dema <a.dema@jazzserve.com>

README.md, after:

# PMM Dump (pmm-import-export-tool)

PMM Dump is a tool that allows to transfer metrics and QAN data from one PMM Server instance to another. It helps Percona Services engineers troubleshoot issues.

## How to build?

You will need to have Go 1.21+ installed.

In the root directory: `make build`

## Using PMM Dump

The transfer process is split into two main parts: export and import.

In order to run either export or import, you have to specify PMM URL with credentials at least:
```
./pmm-dump export --pmm-url "http://USER:PASS@HOST"
./pmm-dump import --pmm-url "http://USER:PASS@HOST" --dump-path FILENAME.tar.gz
```
Also, you can use credentials flags or envars:
```
./pmm-dump export --pmm-url "http://HOST" --pmm-user USER --pmm-pass PASS
PMM_USER=USER PMM_PASS=PASS ./pmm-dump import --pmm-url "http://HOST" --dump-path FILENAME.tar.gz
```

Here are main commands/flags:


| Command   | Flag                 | Description                                                                                               | Example                                                                                                    |
|-----------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| any       | pmm-url              | URL of PMM instance. Envar: `PMM_URL`                                                                     | `http://admin:admin@localhost`                                                                             |
| any       | pmm-host             | Host of PMM instance(with scheme). Envar: `PMM_HOST`                                                      | `http://localhost`                                                                                         |
| any       | pmm-port             | Port of PMM instance. Envar: `PMM_PORT`                                                                   | `80`                                                                                                       |
| any       | pmm-user             | PMM credentials user. Envar: `PMM_USER`                                                                   | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | pmm-pass             | PMM credentials password. Envar: `PMM_PASS`                                                               | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | pmm-token            | PMM API token. Envar: `PMM_TOKEN`                                                                         |                                                                                                            |
| any       | pmm-cookie           | PMM auth cookie value. Envar: `PMM_COOKIE`                                                                 |                                                                                                            |
| any       | dump-core            | Process core metrics                                                                                      | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | dump-qan             | Process QAN metrics                                                                                       | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | workers              | Set the number of import/export workers                                                                   | `4`                                                                                                        |
| export    | start-ts             | Start date-time to limit timeframe (in [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format)            | `2006-01-02T15:04:05Z` (please note that you can't use offset for UTC time)<br>`2006-01-02T15:04:05-07:00` |
| export    | end-ts               | End date-time to limit timeframe (in [RFC3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format)              | `2006-01-02T15:04:05Z` (please note that you can't use offset for UTC time)<br>`2006-01-02T15:04:05-07:00` |
| export    | ignore-load          | Disable checking for load values                                                                          | -                                                                                                          |
| export    | max-load             | Max value of a metric to postpone export                                                                  | `CPU=50,RAM=50,MYRAM=10`                                                                                   |
| export    | critical-load        | Max value of a metric to stop export                                                                      | `CPU=70,RAM=70,MYRAM=30`                                                                                   |
| export    | stdout               | Redirect output to STDOUT                                                                                 | -                                                                                                          |
| export    | vm-native-data       | Use VictoriaMetrics' native export format. Reduces dump size, but can be incompatible between PMM versions | -                                                                                                          |
| import    | vm-content-limit     | Limit the chunk content size for VictoriaMetrics (in bytes). Doesn't work with native format              | `1024`                                                                                                     |
| any       | dump-path, d         | Path to dump file                                                                                         | `/tmp/pmm-dumps/pmm-dump-1624342596.tar.gz`                                                                |
| any       | verbose, v           | Enable verbose (debug) mode                                                                               | -                                                                                                          |
| any       | allow-insecure-certs | For self-signed certificates                                                                              | -                                                                                                          |
| show-meta | -                    | Shows dump meta in human readable format                                                                  | -                                                                                                          |
| show-meta | no-prettify          | Shows raw dump meta                                                                                       | -                                                                                                          |
| version   | -                    | Shows binary version                                                                                      | -                                                                                                          |


For filtering you could use the following commands (will be improved in the future):

| Command | Flag        | Description                       | Example                      |
| ------- | ----------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| export  | ts-selector | Timeseries selector (for VM only) | `{service_name="mongo"}`     |
| export  | where       | WHERE statement (for CH only)     | `service_name='mongo'`       |
| export  | dashboard   | Dashboard name (for VM only)      | `MongoDB Instances Overview` |
| export  | instance    | Filter by service name            | `mongo`                      |

You could filter by instance using service name or id. For example, we have registered the following mongodb instance:

```
> pmm-admin add mongodb --username=pmm_mongodb --password=password mongo mongodb:27017
MongoDB Service added.
Service ID  : 6d7fbaa0-6b21-4c3f-a4a7-4be1e4f58b11
Service name: mongo
```

So the value of `ts-selector` would be: `{service_name="mongo"}` or `{service_id="6d7fbaa0-6b21-4c3f-a4a7-4be1e4f58b11"}`.
The same for `where` QAN filter: `service_name='mongo'` or `service_id='6d7fbaa0-6b21-4c3f-a4a7-4be1e4f58b11'`.
Also, you can use `instance` option which filters QAN and core metrics by service name

```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --ts-selector=`{service_name="mongo"}` --dump-qan --where=`service_name='mongo'`
```
is same as
```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --instance="mongo" --dump-qan
```

To filter by multiple dashboards, you can use `dashboard` flag multiple times:
```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --dashboard='MongoDB Instances Overview' --dashboard='MySQL Instances Overview'`
```

In some cases you would need to override default configuration for VM/CH processing:

| Command | Flag                 | Description                                         | Example                                        |
| ------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| any     | victoria-metrics-url | URL of Victoria Metrics                             | `http://admin:admin@localhost:8282/prometheus` |
| any     | click-house-url      | URL of Click House                                  | `http://localhost:9000?database=pmm`           |
| export  | chunk-time-range     | Time range to be fit into a single chunk (VM only)  | `45s`, `5m`, `1h`                              |
| export  | chunk-rows           | Amount of rows to fit into a single chunk (CH only) | `1000`                                         |

### Using in pipelines
You can redirect output to STDOUT with --stdout option. It's useful to redirect output to another pmm-dump in a pipeline:
```
> ./pmm-dump export --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --dump-qan --stdout | ./pmm-dump import --pmm-url="http://admin:admin@localhost:8282" --dump-qan 
```

### Stop or postpone during export
You can set threshold values to stop or postpone pmm-dump during export using `max-load` and `critical-load` options.

The syntax for these options is following:

```
<threshold>=<percent_value>
```

You can provide multiple threshold values separated by commas. For example:

``` 
--max-load='CPU=100,RAM=30'
```
Available thresholds:
- `CPU` - CPU load of PMM instance in percents (0-100)
- `RAM` - RAM load of PMM instance in percents (0-100)
- `MYRAM` - RAM load of instance which uses pmm-dump in percents (0-100)

## About the dump file

Dump file is a `tar` archive compressed via `gzip`. Here is the shape of dump file:

* `dump.tar.gz/meta.json` - contains metadata about the dump (JSON object)
* `dump.tar.gz/vm/` - contains Victoria Metrics data chunks split by timeframe (in native VM format)
* `dump.tar.gz/ch/` - contains ClickHouse data chunks split by rows count (in TSV format)


## Using Makefile for local development environment

There is a Makefile that contains commands to build and test pmm-dump locally. It uses docker-compose to set up PMM Server, PMM Client and MongoDB.

You will need to have Go 1.21+ and Docker installed.

| Rule                | Description                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| make                | Shortcut for fast test       |
| make build          | Builds pmm-dump binary       |
| make up             | Sets up docker containers    |
| mongo-reg           | Registers MongoDB in PMM     |
| mongo-insert        | Executes MongoDB insert      |
| make down           | Shuts down docker containers |
| make re             | Shortcut for `down up`       |
| make export-all     | Runs export from local PMM   |
| make run-tests      | Runs all tests               |
| make run-e2e-tests  | Runs all e2e tests           |
| make run-unit-tests | Runs all unit tests          |

Read `Makefile` for more.

## Running End-to-End Tests

For detailed instructions on executing end-to-end tests, refer to [Executing e2e tests](./internal/test/README.md).
