support-files/README.md, before:

## How to use the load-pmm-dump.sh script

There are three ways to run the script (all of them require at least one parameter -- the ticket number or container name string):

`./load-pmm-dump CS0012345`

This will assume latest PMM v2 server version, and will deploy two containers: `pmm-data-CS0012345` and `pmm-server-CS0012345`

`./load-pmm-dump CS0012345 2.26.0`

This will use the second argument as PMM server Docker version tag

`./load-pmm-dump CS0012345 /path/to/pmm-dump-1653879141.tar.gz`

This will get the PMM server Docker version tag from the .tar.gz file metadata, and it will use it for the containers.

After it's done, the tool will output some helpful information and copy/paste-ready commands. For example:

```
## USEFUL INFORMATION AND COMMANDS.

## Port 443 is exported to:  49196

## Use the following for port redirection from your local machine:
ssh -L 8443:127.0.0.1:49196  highram

## To import a PMM dump:
pmm-dump import --allow-insecure-certs --pmm-url=https://admin:admin@127.0.0.1:49195 --dump-path=/bigdisk/agustin/load-pmm-dump-files/pmm-dump-1653879141.tar.gz

## Use the following to get human readable dates from a Unix timestamp:
date -d @1657948064

## Increase 'Data Retention' in the advanced settings if the samples are older than the default 30 days.

## To destroy docker containers:
docker rm -vf pmm-data-CS0027251 pmm-server-CS0027251
```

Commit message:

Changes to support multiple file automatic import. (#52)
* Changes to support multiple file automatic import.

- Improved and fully documented exit codes
- Extended regex for .tgz and tar.gz file arguments
- We now wait for PMM server to start, and try to import files listed as arguments
- We now print a warning if metrics are older than default 30 days retention
- Improved the "USEFUL INFORMATION AND COMMANDS." section
- No longer using the pmm-data volume (data will be stored in pmm-server itself)
- No longer using the restart_always flag to the pmm-server container

* Update README.md

support-files/README.md, after:

## How to use the load-pmm-dump script

The main goal of the script is to aide in handling importing data coming from a PMM dump export file (or files). The load-pmm-dump script will:

- Create a PMM server container
- Disable the nginx cap for client_max_body_size
- Try to automatically import pmm-dump files
- Provide useful commands and information on how to further use the container

**Note:** the PMM server container will be created without a data volume/container, so this tool is NOT for deploying any other kind of PMM server other than ones holding volatile and temporary data!

## Running the script

There are three ways to run the script (all of them require at least one parameter -- the ticket number or container name string).

- This will assume latest PMM v2 server version, and will deploy one container: `pmm-server-CS0012345`

`load-pmm-dump CS0012345`

- This will use the second argument as PMM server Docker version tag (all other possible arguments are ignored).

`load-pmm-dump CS0012345 2.26.0`

- This will get the PMM server Docker version tag from the .tar.gz/.tgz file metadata, and it will use it for the container. Additionally, it will try to automatically import the data with `pmm-dump import` (optionally, other files can be added as third and following arguments).

`load-pmm-dump CS0012345 /path/to/pmm-dump-1653879141.tar.gz`

After it's done, the tool will output some helpful information and copy/paste-ready commands. For example:
```
## USEFUL INFORMATION AND COMMANDS.

## Port 443 is exported to: 49277

## Use the following for port redirection from your local machine:
ssh -L 8443:127.0.0.1:49277 tp-support03.tp.int.percona.com

## To import a PMM dump:
pmm-dump import --allow-insecure-certs --pmm-url=https://admin:admin@127.0.0.1:49277 --dump-path=[...]

## Use the following to get human readable dates from a Unix timestamp:
date -d @1657948064

## Increase 'Data Retention' in the advanced settings if the samples are older than the default 30 days.
## For example, to increase to 60 days:
## docker exec pmm-server-CS0037806 curl -s -u admin:admin --request POST -k --url https://127.0.0.1:443/v1/Settings/Change -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"data_retention":"5184000s"}'

## To destroy docker PMM server container:
docker rm -vf pmm-server-CS0037806
```
